Adds a defintion for essential text change (#1916)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: pages/glossary/non-essential-text-change.md

---
title: Non-Essential Text Change
key: non-essential-text-change
unambiguous: true
objective: false
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility tree
  - CSS styling
  - DOM tree
---

> A _non-essential text change_ occurs when the modification of the text content of an HTML element is not required for the purpose of providing context or live updated information to the user. A _non-essential text change_ usually occurs for one of the following purposes:
> 
> 1. **Action Not Required** - Text changes on the page that does not require the immediate action of the user.
> 2. **No Context Included** - Text changes on the page that do not provide any additional information on the context of the page or provide additional help to the user.
> 
> Examples of a _non-essential text change_ would include:
> 
>     - Text changes that do not require immediate user action, such as stock ticker information, sport scores, or advertisements.
>     - "Rolling" updates containing information such as job postings or news article titles and links.
>     - A countdown timer to an event that does not cause a loss of opportunity for the user, such as a countdown to the start of a sporting event. An event like an auction, where timing is a key component, may not be considered a _non-essential text change_.

Reviewer: I still think you're trying to define what "essential" mean here, instead of taking advantage of what we can do with "non-essential", which is to just list out things we know definitely won't be essential. I took another stab at it, here's what I'm thinking might work:

```suggestion
A text change is considered non-essential if it occurs in any of the following scenarios:

- **Carousels**: The text change is part of a fixed set of slides that is updated as part of a carousel; or
- **Rolling Ads**: The text change occurs when an ad replaced with another ad on a timer; or
- **Article feed**: The text change is part of a feed in which new articles are added as they become available such as news articles or posts on a social media site. This does not include chat feeds; or
- **Live data**: The text change is an update of a live event or part of live information such as the scores of a sports match, an exchange rate, and weather measurements; or
- **Countdown timer**: A timer that counts down to an event that occurs at a predetermined time.

**Note**: Other scenarios in which a text change is not essential may exist, but are not covered by this definition. A text change is only "essential" when pausing, stopping or hiding it would fundamentally alter the meaning of information, or the functionality available on the page.

**Note**: While pausing a live feed or live data does change the functionality, it is not a fundamental change. An equivalent alternative for live information would be information along with a particular date and time, to clearly distinguish it from live data. Similarly, a countdown timer is equivalent to providing the exact time at which the event occurs.
```
